The Joe Rogan experience.
And that is the mushroom that was documented in the sacred mushroom in the cross
where John Marco Allegro,
alleged that he alleged that the entire Christian religion was
essentially a misunderstanding.
And it was really all about the consumption of these psychedelic mushrooms and
fertility rituals that these were all sort of captured in
stories and tales and parables. And.
Yeah,
it was academic suicide for him to come out with that statement and still very
controversial.
Um, have you read the, the, his work? Yes, I have. What do.
You think? Well, um, linguistically the guy's way over my head, right?
If you read his, his book, it's all about linguistics. Uh, the one,
the translators of the dead sea scrolls, uh, way beyond my Ken of knowledge.
It's so far beyond my Ken of knowledge. I can't make rhyme or reason out of it.
That.
Seems to be the problem with it. Most people can't. Yeah. So.
But, and there's threads of truth in all of this, but I don't buy it.
Um, you know, on its face on the, the grandiose conclusion that he made,
but clearly mushrooms have inspired religion. Yes.
And I teach these workshops on gourmet and medicinal mushrooms.
And one of these workshops is very spiritual guy. He's very quiet,
but very definitely, you know, walked us. He looked like the real deal.
He waited until everyone was gone. And he said, Paul I've been sent here.
And I said, really? And he says, I I'm a devout Christian
I'm in Billy Graham's inner circle.
And a bunch of us take suicide mushrooms to sacraments Jesus and has brought
us, has brought us closer to of Jesus closer to our religion.
Now I don't care if you're Muslim or Christian or,
or Hindu the idea of these mushrooms making you feel the,
the spiritual universe more spiritually connected,
given your cultural heritage and your reference points. But he said,
these are extremely important. Now, my mother was a charismatic Christian.
I met some people in her group who came to their religious
beliefs through psychedelics. Don't do psychedelics now,
but that was their portal. They had their big revelation through psychedelics.
So the, the connection between, uh,
soul and magic mushrooms and religion,
I think has a lot of credibility. And there's lots of great examples of that.
The specificity of some of the arguments people make. I have.
Great, great doubts about.
That's interesting. Um, what about in the ancient Hindu religions,
the ancient Hinduism,
some of the ancient books be of various sacraments that have sort of never
been defined, right?
Yeah. And why is that? Brah and cows are sacred. You know,
when the philosophy Keas grows out, out Cal poop, right in India,
and yet they won't eat cows and Buddhist supposedly died from a mushroom.
He was, and he was given a mushroom by a peasant and, and Justin,
the mushroom died. Um, you know, that, and so there is that connection.
I've always thought curious that the philosophy S is such a religious provoking
mushroom, and yet cows are highly revered as being sacred. Well,
I would think you would keep the mother of the much from sacred. Yes. You know,
you wanna protect the resource. But again, these are at times when,
when fables and parables and,
and religious rights were controlled by the cognizanti and they were the
gatekeepers of knowledge,
that was too powerful for the general population to understand or appreciate.
And so they protected that knowledge. And that's,
that's the rule of most religions is that the, the inner circle, you know,
holds the keys to the kingdom.
And what's happened with Orthodox religions is they create institutions where
you have to pay tithings in order to have a gatekeeper, to,
to have a contact with God. And that I think is,
is the problem with monotheism versus polytheism Jack.
Had era before he died, was working on, um,
a book about psychedelic drugs, specifically mushrooms and, um,
and religious experiences.
And he had some really crazy old paintings that he had found,
um, that showed people that were naked,
seemingly dancing and ecstasy with translucent mushroom around them.
And the idea being that this is supposed to this,
this image was supposed to represent someone who was tripping.
There's a lot of really interesting books that have been, um, published that,
um, show art, you know, going back hundreds of years, um, even, you know,
into the, the late 13 hundreds, uh, showing,
um, you know, Christian, um, art where mushrooms are,
are pretty easily seen. Mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um, so there's,
there's a lot of history to that, but, but it becomes the unfathomable. I mean,
I, maybe you can imagine it to be true, but how can you prove it to be true?
Right. How can you, yeah. So a lot of that is like,
it's great historical information, probably a lot of it's true, hard to say,
which is, which is true and which is not, but it seems reasonable, right? Yeah.
But in modern times now, Johns Hopkins,
the clinical studies are on my spirituality, uh,
showing that these are some of the most spiritually significant experiences of
people lives.
And the interesting thing about John's Hopkins studies is that 70% of the people
had positive experiences. And 14 months later,
they still described as experiences as being significantly positive,
their friends, their colleagues,
their fellow workers also say that materially changed these people's
personality, but the 30, depending on people had negative experiences,
the negativity of the experience did not extend more than the experience itself.
So this speaks to reremembering and what's been determined is when you have
these really profound spiritual experiences, it sits with you.
And when you reremember, it, you rekindle that thought,
and this may be a way of overlaying PTSD rather than having the reference
standard that's associated with PTSD. You supplanted with a positive experience,
but the people who had negative experiences during tripping did not have a
negative that negative consequences did not extend more than the experie itself.
So this was, this is a profound insight.
And so John Hopkins role Griffiths just emailed me recently.
They have other clinical studies that are ongoing looking at one,
which just got published on meditators, uh, given placebos, uh,
versus getting, um, high doses of soul Ibin and, and then measuring,
um,
the consequences of those experiences months or a year or two later.
And again, the same thing is reinforced theses.
I mushroom experiences create a positive reference point that
you can capitalize on by reremembering them subsequent from experience by not
even having to take the mushrooms again. Hmm. That is profound.
When you have a happy memory that you can anchor your personality on it's a game
changer. Yeah.
I just, uh,
I wonder if we're ever gonna see in our lifetime centers where you can
go in a train professional can guide you.
Through something like this it's happening now, is it? Yes.
The California Institute of, uh,
integrative studies and based in San Francisco are those training therapists and
Canada. There are therapists in Europe. There are therapist,
there is training programs now in psychedelic therapy. Um,
this is something that is, has a tremendous momentum. Um,
indigenous peoples have a really night structure. Many of them do not all,
but many have a really good structure for the responsible use of these
substances. Us are displaced peoples,
and I would call us European based people. And many other people displaced.
We don't have the same constructs historically that we can operate within.
And so the psyche therapists movement is hu huge right now, uh,
Canada is leading the way the Canadian government is very,
very positive towards psychedelic therapy, uh,
because the opioid crisis and because significant, uh,
results is in the movie, this has come out called dosed. Um,
and it attracts a heroin addict, um, a young lady in Vancouver. Um,
it is a heroic movie. It is not one of these.
You kind of feel good at the end of the movie, but it is a, it is, she,
it is intense and she's doing a Boga and she also does high doses of mushrooms,
but the opioid crisis is so pervasive.
There's so poor treatments available that through these psychedelic therapies
in several days, they're seeing a tremendous, um, um,
success and people breaking, you know, decades, long opioid addiction, uh,
within a week. And, uh,
so the psychedelic therapists are integral to that success. And so there are,
there are clinics now arising all,
all over the world for this Portugal and Mexico and Spain, um,
in Jamaica, they're,
the clinics are arising specifically to meet the needs of people who are trying
to get these legally. Uh, so they don't get in trouble with the law.
So in Portugal and Spain and Jamaica, uh, for instance, that these are legal,
uh, many of these substances are.